docs/features/distributed-caches.md, before:

# Distributed Caches

First introduced in the `v3.1.0` release, Cachex provides the ability to spread your caches across the nodes of an Erlang cluster. Doing this provides an easy way to share data across a cluster; for example if a cache entry is written on Node A, it's possible to retrieve it on Node B. This is accomplished via a simple table sharding algorithm which splits your cache data across nodes in the cluster based on the provided key.

## Overview

Cachex intends to provide a very straightforward interface for dealing with a distributed setup; it's intended to be almost invisible to the caller as to whether their keys are coming from the local node or a remote node. When creating your cache, you simple provide a `:nodes` option which contains a list of all nodes that will run the cache. Each node provided much also be configured to run a `Cachex` instance (with the same options). If any of the nodes are unreachable, your cache will not be started and an error will be returned. To aid in the case of development, Cachex will attempt a basic `Node.connect/1` call to try to communicate with each node. In the interest of fault tolerance, you should likely use other methods of node management to handle things like partitions and reconnection as needed.

There are few rules in place for the communication with remote nodes. Any key based actions are routed to the appropriate node (whether local or remote), and any cache based actions are aggregated using the results from each individual node. As an example of this, consider that Node A may have 3 keys and Node B may have 2 keys. In this scenario, a `size/2` call will return a count of `5` automatically. If you desire to only retrieve the result from the local node, these cache based actions all support a `:local` option which, when set to `true`, will return only the result from the local node.

## Disabled Actions

Due to complications with their implementation, there are a small number of actions which are currently unavailable when used in a distributed environment. They're defined below, along with reasonings as to why. It should be noted that just because certain actions are disabled currently, does not mean that they will always be disabled (although there is no guaranteed they will ever be enabled).

One action that is likely to never be made compatible is the `stream/3` action. This is for a couple of reasons; the first being that streaming a cache across nodes doesn't really make too much sense. It would be very complex to keep track of multiple cursors on each node in order to "stream" the cache on a single node. What's more, because a `Stream` in Elixir is essentially an anonymous function, it's not trivial to even implement a stream - each call to the stream would have to RPC (one by one) to each remote node to fetch the next value. This is of course rather expensive, and so it's recommended to simply construct a list to avoid the need to stream.

The `dump/3` and `load/3` functions are also currently unavailable for a couple of reasons. The main reason behind this is that the existing API signatures and implementations do not lend themselves well to a distributed setup, and as such they likely can't be modified without the next major version. What's more, as it stands, the nature of dumping a distributed cache would require pulling a list of entries from all nodes, concatenating them, and only then being able to write to disk. As this can spike memory quite badly, it's better that these functions are simply excluded until they can be worked into the API in a friendlier way.

Commit message:

Add a missing node on :cross_slot

docs/features/distributed-caches.md, after:

# Distributed Caches

First introduced in the `v3.1.0` release, Cachex provides the ability to spread your caches across the nodes of an Erlang cluster. Doing this provides an easy way to share data across a cluster; for example if a cache entry is written on Node A, it's possible to retrieve it on Node B. This is accomplished via a simple table sharding algorithm which splits your cache data across nodes in the cluster based on the provided key.

## Overview

Cachex intends to provide a very straightforward interface for dealing with a distributed setup; it's intended to be almost invisible to the caller as to whether their keys are coming from the local node or a remote node. When creating your cache, you simple provide a `:nodes` option which contains a list of all nodes that will run the cache. Each node provided much also be configured to run a `Cachex` instance (with the same options). If any of the nodes are unreachable, your cache will not be started and an error will be returned. To aid in the case of development, Cachex will attempt a basic `Node.connect/1` call to try to communicate with each node. In the interest of fault tolerance, you should likely use other methods of node management to handle things like partitions and reconnection as needed.

There are few rules in place for the communication with remote nodes. Any key based actions are routed to the appropriate node (whether local or remote), and any cache based actions are aggregated using the results from each individual node. As an example of this, consider that Node A may have 3 keys and Node B may have 2 keys. In this scenario, a `size/2` call will return a count of `5` automatically. If you desire to only retrieve the result from the local node, these cache based actions all support a `:local` option which, when set to `true`, will return only the result from the local node.

In the case you're using an action based on multiple keys (such as `put_many/3` or `transaction/3`), all targeted keys must live on the same target node. This is similar to the likes of [Redis](https://redis.io) where this is also the case. If you try to use either of these functions with keys which slot to different nodes, you will receive a `:cross_slot` error. As it's typically difficult to guarantee that your keys will slot to the same node, it's generally recommended to only call these functions with a single key when used in a distributed cache (and so `put_many/3` is then redundant).

## Disabled Actions

Due to complications with their implementation, there are a small number of actions which are currently unavailable when used in a distributed environment. They're defined below, along with reasonings as to why. It should be noted that just because certain actions are disabled currently, does not mean that they will always be disabled (although there is no guaranteed they will ever be enabled).

One action that is likely to never be made compatible is the `stream/3` action. This is for a couple of reasons; the first being that streaming a cache across nodes doesn't really make too much sense. It would be very complex to keep track of multiple cursors on each node in order to "stream" the cache on a single node. What's more, because a `Stream` in Elixir is essentially an anonymous function, it's not trivial to even implement a stream - each call to the stream would have to RPC (one by one) to each remote node to fetch the next value. This is of course rather expensive, and so it's recommended to simply construct a list to avoid the need to stream.

The `dump/3` and `load/3` functions are also currently unavailable for a couple of reasons. The main reason behind this is that the existing API signatures and implementations do not lend themselves well to a distributed setup, and as such they likely can't be modified without the next major version. What's more, as it stands, the nature of dumping a distributed cache would require pulling a list of entries from all nodes, concatenating them, and only then being able to write to disk. As this can spike memory quite badly, it's better that these functions are simply excluded until they can be worked into the API in a friendlier way.
